# Installing Trawler

To install trawler, you can make use of the sample yaml files within the [deployment](../deployment) folder. You will need to customise these according to your deployment in the following ways:

 - Adjustments to `config.yaml`:
     - Change namespace pointers to the appropriate namespace you have the API Connect components deployed in.
     - Select which nets you want to enable.
     - Set the usernames for datapower and cloud manager.
 - Adjustments to `kustomization.yaml`:
     - Set the namespace you would like to deploy trawler into.
     - Uncomment secret.yaml if you wish to include creation of secrets.
     - Uncomment servicemonitor.yaml and service.yaml if you are using the prometheus operator model.
 - Set secrets for password values either through base64 encoded values in secret.yaml or through your usual method for managing secrets.

## API Manager credentials

For the manager_net you will need to provide trawler credentials to make the API Calls - these can either be client_credentials grants or traditional username/password. For this you will need the following permissions:

 - cloud:view
 - org:view
 - provider-org:view

## Prometheus discovery

The example yaml files in the deployment folder are configured to annotate the trawler pod so that if you have prometheus configured to discover based on the set of prometheus.io labels it should discover and scrape metrics from trawler automatically.

## Prometheus Operator model

In the operator model you will need to ensure that prometheus-operator is deployed with the option `--set prometheus.prometheusSpec.serviceMonitorSelectorNilUsesHelmValues=false` ([ref](https://github.com/helm/charts/issues/11310)) - this causes it not to pick up any ServiceMonitors that do not match the helm deployment labels. 

In this model alongside the standard trawler deployment, you will also need to create the following, which can be uncommented in kustomization.yaml to use with `kubectl apply -k .`:
 - [service](../deployment/service.yaml) to point to the metrics endpoint on the trawler pod 
 - [ServiceMonitor](../deployment/servicemonitor.yaml) to tell the prometheus operator where to find the metrics. 


Alternatively you can adjust the deployment of the trawler pod to match the search pattern of the prometheus operator - look at it's definition to see what labels it's looking for, which you can see using `kubectl get prometheuses.monitoring.coreos.com -o yaml` - the key part is the values that start serviceMonitor e.g. 

    serviceMonitorNamespaceSelector: {}
    serviceMonitorSelector:
      matchLabels:
        release: prom-operator

In this case prometheus-operator is configured to look for serviceMonitors set up with the release `prom-operator`.

For more details on the prometheus operator model see https://coreos.com/operators/prometheus/docs/latest/user-guides/getting-started.html

### Enabling MTLS for Prometheus endpoint

Optionally you can enable MTLS for the communication between Prometheus and Trawler, the steps to do this are as follows:

Update your Trawler deployment with the following environment variables:

```
        - env:
          - name: CERT_PATH
            value : /etc/certs/
          - name: ENABLE_MTLS
            value : true
```

Mount a secret containing the certificates at the path you have specified for CERT_PATH - for example:

```
          volumeMounts:
            - mountPath: /etc/certs/
              name: tls-certs
              readOnly: true
    ...
      volumes:
        - name: tls-certs
          secret:
            defaultMode: 420
            secretName: trawler-certificate 
    ...
```


Configure Prometheus to use a client cert signed by the same CA as the one mounted (NB. Currently the MTLS support requires the server and client certificate to use the same CA - for example both generated by cert-manager). If using the service monitor CR you can do something like this: 

```
spec:
  endpoints:
    - interval: 30s
      port: web
      scheme: http
      tlsConfig:
        serverName: trawler.monitoring.svc.cluster.local
        ca:
          secret:
            key: "ca.crt"
            name: trawler-client-certificate
        cert:
          secret: 
            key: "tls.crt"
            name: trawler-client-certificate
        keySecret: 
          key: "tls.key"
          name: trawler-client-certificate
        insecureSkipVerify: false
```

Enabling MTLS will cause flask to output a warning that the WSGI server is not to be used for production, however given exposing metrics to prometheus is a single client to the server and used within the cluster this shouldn't be a cause for concern. Also the [http.server](https://docs.python.org/3/library/http.server.html#http.server.HTTPServer) library used within the official prometheus_client has the same warning in it's documentation.